2023年5-8月题库 PART1

## Bags

### 1.Do you usually carry a bag?

Yeah, most of the time I've got a bag on me. It's kind of my <ins>**lifeline**</ins>, you know? I carry all the <ins>**essentials**</ins> in it, like my phone, wallet, keys, and a bunch of other <ins>**knick-knacks**</ins>. Having a bag just makes life easier and keeps everything <ins>**in one place**</ins>, so I don't have to <ins>**worry**</ins> about forgetting anything important.

1\. lifeline \[ˈlaɪflaɪn\] 支持，救命稻草
2\. essentials \[ɪˈsɛnʃəlz\] 必需品，基本要素
3\. knick-knacks \[ˈnɪkˌnæks\] 小物件，小饰品
4\. in one place \[ɪn wʌn pleɪs\] 在一个地方，集中在一处
5\. worry \[ˈwʌri\] 担忧，担心

### 2.What kinds of bags do you like to carry?

I'm a fan of bags that are both <ins>**practical**</ins> and <ins>**stylish**</ins>. My <ins>**go-to**</ins> is usually a <ins>**crossbody**</ins> bag because it's <ins>**hands-free**</ins> and super convenient. But, depending on the occasion, I might also <ins>**opt for**</ins> a backpack or a tote. As for the design, I like bags that have a <ins>**timeless**</ins> look and can easily <ins>**blend in**</ins> with different outfits.
1\. practical \[ˈpræktɪkəl\] 实用的，务实的
2\. stylish \[ˈstaɪlɪʃ\] 时尚的，有品味的
3\. go-to \[ˈɡoʊ tu\] 首选，可靠的
4\. crossbody bag \[ˈkrɔsbɑdi bæɡ\] 斜挎包
5\. hands-free \[ˈhændz fri\] 免提的
6\. opt for \[ɒpt fɔr\] 选择，挑选
7\. timeless \[ˈtaɪmlɪs\] 永恒的，不受时间影响的
8\. blend in \[blend ɪn\] 融入，和谐共处

### 3.Do you change your bags often?

Not really, I <ins>**tend to**</ins> <ins>**stick with**</ins> a bag for quite a while if it suits my needs. I'm not one to <ins>**jump on**</ins> every <ins>**trend**</ins> that comes along. However, if I find a new bag that <ins>**ticks all the boxes**</ins> for me, I might make the <ins>**switch**</ins>. But overall, I'd say I have a few go-to bags that I <ins>**rotate**</ins> depending on my mood and the occasion.

1\. tend to \[tɛnd tu\] 倾向于，往往会
2\. stick with \[stɪk wɪð\] 坚持，保持
3\. jump on \[dʒʌmp ɒn\] 迅速采纳，跟风
4\. trend \[trɛnd\] 趋势，潮流
5\. ticks all the boxes \[tɪks ɔl ðə bɑksɪz\] 满足所有条件，全方位符合
6\. switch \[swɪtʃ\] 转换，更换
7\. rotate \[roʊˈteɪt\] 轮换，更替

### 4.when you were young, did you have a school bag?

Oh yeah, when I was a kid, I definitely had a school bag! It was like a <ins>**rite of passage**</ins>, you know? Almost every Chinese student, including me, carried a backpack to hold our books, pencils, and lunch. It was pretty much a <ins>**must-have**</ins> item back then.
1.rite of passage /raɪt əv ˈpæsɪdʒ/成人礼
2.must-have /ˈmʌstˌhæv/必备品

## Concentration

### 1.Did you stay focused in class when you were a child?

As a child, I was often <ins>**absorbed**</ins> in my studies, but <ins>**let's face it**</ins>, nobody's perfect. There were times when my mind would <ins>**meander**</ins>, especially during subjects that didn't quite <ins>**pique**</ins> my interest. However, when I was truly <ins>**engaged**</ins>, I'd be <ins>**all ears**</ins>, <ins>**soaking up**</ins> information <ins>**like a sponge**</ins>.
1\. absorbed /əbˈzɔrbd/ 全神贯注的
2\. let's face it /ˈlɛts ˈfeɪs ɪt/ 坦白说
3\. meander /miˈændər/ 漫步
4\. pique /ˈpik/ 引起兴趣
5\. engaged /ɪnˈɡeɪdʒd/ 全神贯注的
6\. all ears /ɔl ˈɪrz/ 洗耳恭听
7\. soaking up /ˈsoʊkɪŋ ˈʌp/ 吸收
8\. like a sponge /laɪk ə ˈspʌndʒ/ 像海绵一样

### 2.Are you a focused people?

<ins>**By and large**</ins>, I consider myself a focused person. When <ins>**push comes to shove**</ins>, I can <ins>**buckle down**</ins> and get things done. But, of course, I'm only human, and there are days when I'm a bit <ins>**scatterbrained**</ins>. And I think it's all about finding my <ins>**groove**</ins> and <ins>**staying on track**</ins>, even when life throws me <ins>**curveballs**</ins>.
1\. by and large /baɪ ənd ˈlɑrdʒ/ 总的来说
2\. push comes to shove /pʊʃ ˈkʌmz tə ˈʃʌv/ 在关键时刻
3\. buckle down /ˈbʌkəl ˈdaʊn/ 努力工作
4\. scatterbrained /ˈskætərˌbreɪnd/ 思想散乱的
5\. groove /gruv/ 节奏
6\. staying on track /ˈsteɪɪŋ ɒn træk/ 保持进度
7\. curveballs /ˈkɜrvˌbɔlz/ 意外的事

### 3.How do you stay focused?

To stay focused, I've found it's crucial to <ins>**get into the zone**</ins>. One way I do that is by <ins>**decluttering**</ins> my <ins>**workspace**</ins>, as a tidy space helps clear my mind. I also <ins>**break tasks into**</ins> bite-sized chunks, making them easier to <ins>**tackle**</ins>. And when the <ins>**going gets tough**</ins>, I might <ins>**take a breather**</ins> or try a <ins>**change of scenery**</ins> to <ins>**recharge my batteries**</ins>.
1\. get into the zone /ˈɡɛt ˈɪntu ðə zoʊn/ 进入状态
2\. declutter /diˈklʌtər/ 清理杂物
3\. workspace /ˈwɜrkˌspeɪs/ 工作空间
4\. break tasks into bite-sized chunks /breɪk tæsks ˈɪntu ˈbaɪtˌsaɪzd tʃʌŋks/ 把任务分解成小块
5\. tackle /ˈtækəl/ 处理
6\. going gets tough /ˈɡoʊɪŋ ɡɛts ˈtʌf/ 遇到困难
7\. take a breather /ˈteɪk ə ˈbriðər/ 暂停休息
8\. change of scenery /tʃeɪndʒ əv ˈsiːnəri/ 换个环境
9\. recharge my batteries /riˈtʃɑrdʒ maɪ ˈbætəriz/ 恢复精力

## Day off

### 1.When was the last time you had a few days off?

Oh, the last time I had a few days off was during the Spring Festival break, you know? It was pretty cool because I got to <ins>**chill**</ins> with my family, <ins>**catch up on**</ins> some sleep, and even managed to <ins>**squeeze in**</ins> some time for my hobbies, like reading and painting.
1\. chill /tʃɪl/ 放松
2\. catch up /kæʧ ʌp/ 取得平衡
3\. squeeze in /skwiz ɪn/ 抽出时间

### 2.What do you usually do when you have days off?

Oh, when I have days off, I usually like to <ins>**catch up**</ins> on some sleep, you know? Then, I'd probably hang out with friends, maybe go to a café, watch a movie or even play some sports together. It's all about having a good time and <ins>**recharging**</ins> my <ins>**batteries**</ins>.
1\. catch up /kæʧ ʌp/ 取得进展
2\. recharge /riːˈʧɑrdʒ/ 恢复精力
3\. batteries /ˈbætəriz/ 精力 (在这个语境下)

### 3.Do you usually spend your days off with your parents or with your friends?

Well, it really depends on the situation, you know? If I'm at college, I usually <ins>**hang out**</ins> with my friends on days off, since we're all together on campus. But when I'm back home, I try to spend <ins>**quality time**</ins> with my parents, because I don't see them as often as I'd like to.
1\. hang out /hæŋ aʊt/ 闲逛，消磨时间
2\. quality time /ˈkwɒlɪti taɪm/ 珍贵时光

### 4.What would you like to do if you had a day off tomorrow?

If I had a day off tomorrow, I would probably sleep in for a bit and then <ins>**catch up on**</ins> some TV shows or movies that I've been meaning to watch. Maybe I would also go out for a meal or a drink with some friends if they're available. It would be nice to just have a relaxing day without any real plans or <ins>**obligations**</ins>.
1.catch up on /kætʃ ʌp ɑn/ 追赶，赶上（某事）
2.obligations /ˌɑːblɪˈɡeɪʃənz/ 义务，责任

## Dream

### 1.What was your childhood dream?

My childhood dream was to become a <ins>**pilot**</ins>, you know, like <ins>**soaring**</ins> through the skies and <ins>**exploring**</ins> new places. I was super into planes and stuff like that, and I'd spend hours reading about them or watching documentaries on TV. But as I grew up, I realized it wasn't quite <ins>**practical**</ins> for me, so I chose a different <ins>**path**</ins>.
1\. pilot /ˈpaɪlət\]/ 飞行员
2\. soaring /ˈsɔːrɪŋ/ 高飞，翱翔
3\. exploring /ɪkˈsplɔːrɪŋ/ 探险，探索
4\. practical /ˈpræktɪkəl/ 实际的，切实可行的
5\. path /pæθ/ 路径，道路

### 2.Are you the kind of person who sticks to dreams?

Well, you know, I'd say I kinda stick to my dreams, because I believe that with hard work and determination, anything is possible. However, I'm also realistic and open to change, in case life throws a <ins>**curveball**</ins> my way.
1\. curveball /ˈkɜrvbɔl/ 意外的事物

### 4.What do you often dream of?

Most of the time, I dream about traveling to different countries, experiencing their <ins>**unique** **cultures**</ins>, and <ins>**tasting**</ins> their <ins>**amazing**</ins> food. I think it's because, as a Chinese college student, I'm <ins>**kinda**</ins> stuck in this daily routine, studying all the time, and I just wanna <ins>**break free**</ins>, explore the world, and make <ins>**unforgettable** **memories**</ins>.
1\. unique /juːˈniːk/ 独特的，独一无二的
2\. cultures /ˈkʌltʃərz/ 文化
3\. tasting /ˈteɪstɪŋ/ 品尝
4\. amazing /əˈmeɪzɪŋ/ 令人惊讶的，惊奇的
5\. kinda /ˈkaɪndə/ 有点
6\. break free /breɪk friː/ 挣脱束缚，摆脱
7\. unforgettable /ˌʌnfərˈɡɛtəbl/ 难忘的，令人难忘的
8\. memories /ˈmɛməriz/ 记忆，回忆

## Favorite day

### 1.Which day is your favorite day?

Oh, my favorite day must be Friday, you know? It's like the perfect balance between finishing up classes for the week and looking forward to the weekend ahead, which is super exciting because I can hang out with friends or just <ins>**chill out**</ins> at home.
1\. chill out /tʃɪl/ 放松

### 2.Which day is your least favorite day?

You know, I'd say my least favorite day is probably Sunday, because even though I get to chill out, the thought of Monday just <ins>**looms**</ins> over me. I <ins>**reckon**</ins> that most Chinese college students might feel the same way, as the weekend <ins>**wraps up**</ins> and the <ins>**pressure**</ins> of a new week kicks in.
1\. looms /luːmz/ 逼近，迫近
2\. reckon /ˈrekən/ 认为，猜想
3\. wraps up /ræps ʌp/ 结束，完成
4\. pressure /ˈpreʃər/ 压力，紧迫感

### 3.What's your busiest day of the week?

Well, you know, as a Chinese college student, Wednesdays are usually my busiest day of the week because I've got <ins>**back-to-back**</ins> classes, like from morning till evening, and after that, I have to attend a <ins>**study group**</ins>, so yeah, it's quite <ins>**hectic**</ins> for me.
1\. hectic /ˈhektɪk/ 忙碌的
2\. back-to-back /ˌbæk tə ˈbæk/ 连续不断的
3\. study group /ˈstʌdi ˈɡrʊp/ 学习小组

### 4.How do you usually spend your time?

Well, you know, as a Chinese college student, I mostly <ins>**hit the books**</ins> during <ins>**weekdays**</ins>, and when I've got some free time, I love <ins>**hanging out**</ins> with friends or <ins>**catching a movie**</ins>. Sometimes I <ins>**hit the gym**</ins> too, just to <ins>**stay fit**</ins> and healthy.
1\. hit the books /hɪt ðə bʊks/ 用功读书
2\. weekdays /ˈwiːkˌdeɪz/ 工作日，平日
3\. hanging out /ˈhæŋɪŋ aʊt/ 闲逛，消磨时间
4\. catching a movie /ˈkæʧɪŋ ə ˈmuːvi/ 看电影
5\. hit the gym /hɪt ðə dʒɪm/ 去健身房锻炼
6\. stay fit /steɪ fɪt/ 保持健康

id: 08df9cac49e547858c7c6d95571d76f7
parent_id: a65d59f19d564337afeeebdc5dd811af
created_time: 2023-07-16T12:43:19.271Z
updated_time: 2023-07-16T15:31:30.021Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 31.23041600
longitude: 121.47370100
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-07-16T12:43:19.271Z
user_updated_time: 2023-07-16T15:31:30.021Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
type_: 1