0.1 - England - Edinburgh university -  conversation robot - Edoardo

### second letter
Dear Dr. Edoardo:
    I am Baizhen Li, the guy who contacted you last year but unfortunately missed the deadline for submitting the application at Edinburgh University. After considering seriously what I want in the journey of pursuing a Ph.D. degree, I decided to have a gap year for application for the Ph.D. program in Edinburgh.
    Now I am a C++ engineer who works using machine learning methods to develop new sub-resolution assist feature which can be helpful in improving the precision of optical proximity correction. Prior to that, I was a data scientist who worked at an advertising system and focused on lowering the bias between real bidding prices and their model prediction. I completed my undergraduate studies in computer science and technology at Yantai University in 2017 and then received my master's degree in computer technology at Tongji University in 2021.
	My interest in dialogue systems was first inspired when I took a glance at Xiaoice. I was astonished by the performance of this robot and I think the goal of natural language is conversation. Recently, ChatGPT was introduced and in my perspective, it can be a sign of revolution because ChatGPT can be seen as the first product of general artificial intelligence. The development of dialogue systems strengthens my faith to be a scientist in dialogue systems.
    What attracts me is your good academic taste and background. Putting aside your education background, I noticed you had been working in groups at different organizations like Cambridge, McGill, and Standford. Based on my experience, I tend to interpret it as behaviors motivated by great academic pursuits. If not, why we do not keep still? Plus, I have read your paper "combining modular skills in multitask learning" and I was attracted by the way of modeling the "popularity" and "freshness" in the Indian Buffet Process (IBP). In comparison to the existing methods like the softmax gate mechanism or sigmoid gate mechanism, it is more reasonable and efficient. I feel this type of research is what I want to do. In addition, you have interned as a researcher at Apple. This experience enables the perspective of industry in the area of dialogue systems. As a result, I believe you are a good supervisor for me.
    I am confident in completing my Ph.D. degree because of three reasons. First, I am experienced in doing experiments and academic writing. I am the author of the first order of three papers (one is indexed by zone 1 SCI and the others are indexed by EI. One of those papers is highly related to dialogue systems).  Next, I am interested in dialogue systems and staunch toward my goal. Interest is the best teacher and I believe my fortitude will overcome any difficulties in pursuing the Ph.D. degree. Last but not least, I am insightful into computer science and engineering because I have been working for about two years. I acknowledged what is really important in engineering and academic areas and I believe this can show me the direction of research in solving hard problems.
    If applicable, I want to split the research topic "efficient and scalable task-oriented dialogue systems" into three parts.  As expressed in your research statement, existing models are data-hungry and their performance heavily relies on the overlap between train and evaluation data distribution. One essential problem, I believe, is the way models understand the data or learn from the data. This problem can be viewed as two sub-problems: 1) how to represent the data in an understandable way to the models. if this problem can be solved, then there must be a direct answer to difficulties or the ability of learning. 2) how to represent the model's hypothesis on the given data or tasks. I think it is actually in line with modular deep learning. The last part is the concrete neural network schema for the dialogue systems. I hope I can implement my understanding or ideas on the prior two problems during designing efficient and scalable dialogue models.
    To help you know me better, I have upload my resume to my blog for perusal. I sincerely hope that I can join your research group the next year. If applicable, I hope the position is with a scholarship. Thank you for your reading and I am looking forward to your kind reply.
Sincerely yours,
Baizhen Li 



## first letter
 Dear Dr. Edoardo M. Ponti,  
    I am writing this email to explore the possibility to join your research team as a PhD candidate.Firstly, I would like to bring a brief introduction to myself. Following this, I summarized my research experience in the third paragraph. Besides, I discuss the potential topic in which we are likely interested, and I place it in the fourth paragraph. 
    I am a freelancer now and I plan to apply for PhD starting October 2023 in the School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh. Previously, I was a software engineer at Baidu, Inc. where I worked on bid optimization in real-time bidding system. Before that, I did some researches related to dialogue state tracking and obtained my MSc from Tongji University in 2021. 
    When I was doing my MSc, I proposed a new framework of rough sets-based feature selection to boost the efficiency of 5 algorithms. Meanwhile, I also focused on the research about real-time dialogue state tracking model. Based on analysis of dialogue data and existing model, I applied some known methods to improve generalization ability of existing dialogue state tracking model. 
    I want to do further researches in designing efficient task-oriented dialogue systems. When I did the literature review for that topic, I have read your papers called "crossing the conversational chasm: a primer on natural language processing for multilingual task-oriented dialogue systems" and "combining modular skills in multitask learning". I completely agree with you that tasks conceived as the combination of autonomous skills is a good alternative to achieve systematic generalization. I am interested in implementing this idea in modular task-oriented dialogue systems research. I sincerely hope that I can join your research group and work with you. So, I wonder if there is any Ph.D. position with scholarship available in fall, 2023. If not, is it possible to be co-supervised by you and other professors so that I can work in your group?
    To help you know me better, I have enclosed my resume for your perusal. Thanking you for your reading and I will be waiting for your kind reply at your earliest convenience.

Sincerely yours, 
Baizhen Li


id: 0cf1e293940645eb909f3358cdc4c04b
parent_id: 4e804b02806c405c9cd7edde13875157
created_time: 2023-05-13T03:02:17.536Z
updated_time: 2023-05-14T03:28:39.983Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 31.23041600
longitude: 121.47370100
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-05-13T03:02:17.536Z
user_updated_time: 2023-05-14T03:28:39.983Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
type_: 1