口语

Part 3: 7种常见的问题

1. **Opinion** – What do you think about 'this'? Remember to say why you think that way and give examples.

    * **As I see it,**
    * **Personally,**
    * **For me,**

    If you feel very strongly about something you could use:

    * **I’m convinced that….**
    * **I’m certain that….**
    * **I’m sure that….**

    If you are less sure about your opinion you could give a weaker opinion by using:

    * **I guess that…**
    * **I suppose that….**
    * **I’d say that…..**
2. **Evaluate** – What do you think about someone else's opinion?

    For **agreement** we can use:

    * **I couldn't agree with you more.**
    * **That's so true.**
    * **That's for sure.**
    * **That's exactly how I feel.**
    * **No doubt about it.**
    * **I suppose so./I guess so.**
    * **You/they have a point there.**

    For **disagreement** we can use:

    * **I don't think so.**
    * **I'm afraid I disagree.**
    * **I totally disagree.**
    * **I beg to differ.**
    * **I'd say the exact opposite.**
    * **Not necessarily.**
    * **That's not always true.**
    * **That's not always the case.**
3. **Future** – What do you think will happen in the future?

    * **X plans to…..**
    * **It is predicted that….**
    * **X intends to….**
    * **I foresee…..**
    * **It is foreseeable….**
    * **Conditionals- If X + verb…..**
    * **It is likely that…**
    * **It is probable that….**
    * **It is unforeseeable that….**
    * **I envisage….**
4. **Cause and Effect** – What caused ‘this’ and/or what effects has 'it' had?

    To talk about cause and effect you can use:

    * **…because…**
    * **…as a result….**
    * **…resulted in…**
    * **…as a consequence…**
    * **…due to….**
    * **…caused…**
    * **…led to….**
    * **…means that….**
5. **Hypothetical** – Talk about imaginary or unreal situations.

    **If + (subject 1) + past participle, then (subject 2) + would + verb**
6. **Compare and Contrast** – Talk about the difference and/or similarities between two things.

    Some comparative adjectives are irregular:

    **Good- better**

    **Bad- worse**

    **Far- further**

    For short adjectives, add –(e)r. If they end in –y change to –ier. For example:

    **Hard- harder**

    **Cheap- cheaper**

    **Easy- easier**

    **Lazy- lazier**

    For longer adjectives, use more. For example:

    **More interesting**

    **More difficult**
7. **Past** – How were things different in the past and how have they changed?

    * We may use the **present perfect continuous** to talk about something that started in the past and continues up until the present. Example: They have been developing the city centre for the past five years. For this tense we use the structure **has/have + been + present participle (verb-ing)**.
    * **Used to + infinitive **to talk about past habits or states that are now finished.
    * **Would + infinitive **to describe past habits.
    * **Past simple** to talk about things you did in the past that you no longer do or are no longer true.
    * **Past continuous** to talk about the background of a story or how you felt at a particular time.
    * **Past perfect** to say something happened before something else in the past.


id: 21187a5e30f84e4f9407c5ade7e58b8a
parent_id: a65d59f19d564337afeeebdc5dd811af
created_time: 2023-03-26T03:27:23.070Z
updated_time: 2023-03-31T12:47:21.539Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1680266841518
user_created_time: 2023-03-26T03:27:23.070Z
user_updated_time: 2023-03-31T12:47:21.539Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
type_: 1