Research Proposal

What does a good research proposal look like? In general, it should address the following questions:

* What is your research project about?
* Why is the project relevant for your field of research?
* How should the research be conducted?
* What is the schedule for the project?

A well-structured research proposal answers these questions transparently and step-by-step. Typically, a proposal is between 3 and 10 pages long.

Structure of a Research proposal

* Work title: the title should make very clear what the research is about
* Context of the research project: 

  * what is the state-of-the-art in the field?
  * Why is your project relevant?
  * How does your project relate to work of other scientists in the field？
  * What is the research question that you would like to answer?
* Research question (in detail) and working hypotheses

  * What do you want to find out?
  * What could the results of your research look like?
* Research approach and methods

  * How do you intend to answer your research question?
  * Which theoretical framework are you going to apply?
  * How do you want to gather data(experiments, randomized controlled trials, surveys, etc)?
  * How do you want to analyse the data?
* Potential technical, financial or ethical problems with your research
* Preliminary schedule

  * How much time will you need for the individual steps of the project?
* Publication

  * Will the disseration be paper-based or a monograph?
  * Will there be additional publications?
* Bibliography

  * A list of the most the important literature you research will be based on


id: 2f9bbc2435814028af83a116920751f1
parent_id: 8b749ca9c6c046a1bde0cdccbe052127
created_time: 2023-03-26T03:26:51.962Z
updated_time: 2023-05-13T03:51:52.919Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1680266801264
user_created_time: 2023-03-26T03:26:51.962Z
user_updated_time: 2023-03-31T12:46:41.285Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
type_: 1