1 - An introduction to the journey of doing PhD

1.  研究方向: 贝叶斯深度学习, 现有的文献梳理, 脉络梳理, 问题梳理.
    
2.  英语学习: 英语学习计划 \+ 资料的梳理
    
3.  个人管理: 个人生活, 如何养成更好的习惯, 如何合理管理自己的生活, 如何放松和培养一门令自己感到高兴和快乐的技能, 如何恋爱.
    
4.  基础技术: 机器学习, 线性变换, 统计推断, 优化算法, 演化算法, 强化学习, 经典算法,
    
5.  工程能力: 计算机操作系统, python + CPP + SWIG + Spark + hadoop
    

动态系统: [https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1eJ411H7Mx?spm\_id\_from=333.999.0.0](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1eJ411H7Mx?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0)

自然语言处理: [https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1r4411f7td?spm\_id\_from=333.999.0.0](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1r4411f7td?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0)

傅里叶变换: [https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1kX4y1u7GJ?spm\_id\_from=333.999.0.0](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1kX4y1u7GJ?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0)

统计学习: [https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1NW41177q4?spm\_id\_from=333.999.0.0](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1NW41177q4?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0)

卡尔漫滤波: [https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1ez4y1X7eR?spm\_id\_from=333.999.0.0](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1ez4y1X7eR?spm_id_from=333.999.0.0)

简单的仓库:

项目模板仓库: https://github.com/victoresque/pytorch-template

读博FAQ: <ins>[Everything I wanted to know about C.S. graduate school at the beginning but didn’t learn until later.](https://www.cs.unc.edu/~azuma/hitch4.html)</ins>

全栈工程： polyaxon库， 工业级别全栈库

Stages of Ph.D. thesis research

- Selection of area–not a topic of this talk
    
- Selection of advisor–not a topic of this talk
    
- Becoming a researcher in the area
    
    - Building up general knowledge, experience, and confidence
        
    - Knowing issues and important questions in the area
        
    - Capturing research opportunities
        
        - Don’t let any idea or question go by without first giving it careful thought.
            
            - Be alert and diligent.
        - Pay attention to new technologies
            
            - Examples
                - VLSI, networking, and new chips such as the Weitek floating-point chips three years ago which in some sense gave the initial motivation for the Warp project
    - Some useful things to do (from Dave Gifford, MIT)
        
        - Read recent proceedings of the best conferences, and ask more senior people what were the best papers. Try to figure out what makes a great paper (and thus what makes great research).
        - Keep a notebook that contains your research notes. Put all of your empirical data and initial ideas in the notebook. Make notes on a paper as you read it and think about the assumptions of the author and the importance of the results.
        - Follow references from one paper to another until you know an area extremely well. Don’t count on your advisor to hand you all of the relevant papers out of his file drawer. He doesn’t have them all!
- Thesis proposal
    
    - It is the most crucial stage in the sense that the basic concept is worked out here.
        
        - To get important results you need to ask important questions
        - This is the time you need your advisor most.
        - Problems in later stages are usually rooted from a weak thesis proposal.
    - Purpose
        
        - A research plan
            
            - A serious attempt to get an overview of the whole research course
                
            - Not really a contract
                
                - Need some flexibility because research always has uncertainty.
        - Forming the committee
            
            - Varies a lot
                
            - Choose people for your thesis committee that can help with needed expertise. For example, it is useful to have a relevant theory faculty member on a systems committee and vice-versa.
                
            - However, there is usually no need to optimize too much on the selection of the committee members–advisor still plays the most important role.
                
            - However it can be very important, when
                
                - you have a “questionable” advisor, or
                - you have an interdisciplinary topic.
        - A review
            
            - If there is any serious doubt, it had better show up now.
            - Proposal could sometimes be viewed as just a forcing function for taking care of certain things.
    - Some of the difficult questions always asked in a thesis proposal:
        
        - What is your approach and what is new?
        - What is your secret weapon? (Herbert Simon)
        - How do you measure your own progress?
        - What are the success or completion criteria?
        - How will the expected results change the-state-of- the-art?
    - The grand challenge for a thesis proposal is to come up with an approach or an experiment.
        
        - It is easy to identify a general problem area, but setting up an approach and designing an experiment can be difficult.
            
            - Need ideas
                
                - Just need one good idea, really
                - Unfortunately, there is no magic here (however see some hints below). This is the hard part of any research project for everyone (not just for students).
        - Need independent thinking
            
            - You should be good enough to start arguing with your advisor on technical issues and research tastes.
        - Need to elaborate on focus, approach, experiment, and potential impact
            
            - For theory research you may propose some new models of computation.
                
                - Examples: area-time complexity (new VLSI model in theory), parallel algorithms (new cost models)
            - For system research you may design experiments and argue their relevance.
                
                - Examples: multiprocessor architecture, compiler for a parallel machine
    - Useful things to know when preparing a thesis proposal
        
        - Be honest. There is no need to exaggerate your claims! If you point out the weaknesses in your approach you will disarm your critics.
            
        - Pick a project that is manageable so you can do an excellent job – things are always harder than they seem. It is far better to do an outstanding job on a moderate size project than a moderate job on a large project.
            
        - Include a tentative thesis outline and a month by month schedule in your thesis proposal.
            
            - This may be difficult to do but it is better than no plan at all.
            - This will also help gauge the total size of the work you are committing yourself to do.
- Producing results
    
    - Lots of work–what else do you expect?
        
        - System–be inside an active project without losing sight of thesis
            
            - Need to be a worker as well as a conceptual person.
                
            - Your work depends on other people’s work and vice versa
                
                - Opportunity to see real problems
                    
                - Getting good support, including encouragement and demand, from the group
                    
                    - It seems that this arrangement really works in all cases.
            - Be quick, because you don’t want to be overtaken by the environment (this is one of the pitfalls to avoid, as described below)
                
        - Theory–be lucky!
            
            - Be flexible
                
                - It is hard to insist that you will prove a theorem before you go to sleep.
            - Be quick, because theoretical results are totally portable and so competition can be keen.
                
    - Keep the committee informed (at least those “trouble makers”)
        
        - You can get real help sometimes.
            
        - Committee members are obliged to talk to you.
            
            - Sometimes finding a qualified person beyond your advisor to discuss your work can be difficult.
        - Don’t want surprises in the later stage of the thesis
            
    - Ways to finish a thesis
        
        - Incremental and adaptive approach
            
            - A sequence of incremental results
        - Big-bang approach (this is not recommended in general)
            
            - One big theorem
            - A big piece of software or hardware
- Writing
    
    - Why some students find that Ph.D. thesis writing is very difficult
        
        - First major document
            
        - Writing is time-consuming–part of the .9999 perspiration (Satya)
            
            - Think how many good sentences you can write in an hour.
                
            - Fighting with fonts, figures, references, etc.?
                
                - Please don’t be too picky.
        - When results are not totally solid, writing can be really difficult even for an experienced writer (now you know another reason why proposal writing is not easy)
            
            - Can’t say too much and don’t want to say any less
                
            - Writing about flaky results can be a real challenge.
                
                - In this case you should improve your results first.
        - Writing has to do with presentation rather than finding new results. So writing may not be as exciting..
            
    - However, thesis writing is useful in the sense that it helps reveal possible problem areas and provides new insights.
        
        - Help get a large picture on what you really have.
            
        - Help organize the concepts
            
        - Completeness is forced.
            
            - You must take care of things that you have been ignoring.
                
                - For example, you need to do comparison with other results
        - Correctness of the results is checked.
            
            - You had better have the proof now for any plausible “theorem” that you have been believing.
        - New insights on how things really work
            
            - New ways of looking at your results
    - Recommendations
        
        - Get some practice–write some papers before thesis
            
            - Write some joint papers with people who have substantial writing experience
        - Need to know the theme of the thesis very well
            
            - Outline first
            - Write the conclusion first (try it at least)
            - Start writing chapters which are more settled.
            - Write the introduction last
            - Iterative process
        - Make the writing as precise as possible, so that you know exactly what you are talking about. This will save lots of rewriting.
            
            - Precise writing usually also yields good English.
- Getting final comments from the committee
    
    - Not too early or too late
        
        - Getting some committee members to read can be a challenge.
            
            - They are busy people. You want to give them an “optimal” version to make comments.
    - How much to ask for comments varies a lot
        
    - Should not have any surprises now.
        
        - You had better know what you have been doing by now.
        - However, if there is any problem, it had better show up now.
- Defense
    
    - Mostly a formality and a happy occasion (should be like that)
        
        - You know that your results are good and you will present them well.
            
            - You should know the answer to the question – “What are the three main ideas in your thesis?”. You should be able to rattle them off and relate them to previous work.
        - Getting a date set can be more difficult than you think.
            
            - Committee members do not necessarily stay at CMU as long as you do!
                
            - Weekend defense is not really desirable.
                
                - May be difficult to get audience.
    - However defense is still very important:
        
        - Opportunity for final improvements for the thesis
            
        - Formal presentation to the community
            
            - Many people form their opinion of your n-years’ work from this presentation
        - Presentation material can be used for future presentations
            
            - Used in recruiting presentations if you have not settled on a job yet
        - Psychologically important
            
            - Once in a life time occasion–you will remember it always.
        - Don’t want to blow it.
            
            - Absolutely no surprises
- After defense
    
    - Usually there is still some minor work to be done for the thesis (too bad)
        
        - Defense was moved early for various reasons
        - New comments from defense
        - Did not have time or did not want to polish the thesis before defense
    - Publication
        
        - Articles, books (or give the thesis to your parents)
            
        - Very important to publish the results in journals
            
            - This is the only reliable way to archive your results. (You don’t want to lose them after all these efforts, do you?)
            - Publication is important for academic career.
            - May break the thesis up in several articles. When appropriate, some articles may have joint authors such as your advisor.
            - Do it right away before you get on to the next thing.
        - Books can be good too.
            
    - Follow-on work
        
        - Keep mining the thesis–why not?
    - Finally you are free!

id: 6c1fde74d4994175ab93557ff0cd7a5e
parent_id: a9388691a8534296b7c2591bc96a75cd
created_time: 2023-03-26T03:26:51.966Z
updated_time: 2023-07-02T04:02:00.776Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1680266802328
user_created_time: 2023-03-26T03:26:51.966Z
user_updated_time: 2023-07-02T04:02:00.776Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
type_: 1