id: f096fc2e36614e61a5fbb12f73709704
parent_id: c4da4ba0e0a04e02846dd97e275b7237
item_type: 1
item_id: 3a86b18e162646b38cc7b8ea35850a97
item_updated_time: 1686411689735
title_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[0,\"omputing\"],[1,\" wpedrycz@ualberta.ca\"]],\"start1\":38,\"start2\":38,\"length1\":8,\"length2\":29}]"
body_diff: "[{\"diffs\":[[0,\"ct: \"],[-1,\"Student Interested in TSU Problem\"],[1,\"Prospective PhD Student Inquiry\\\n\"],[0,\"\\\nDea\"]],\"start1\":44,\"start2\":44,\"length1\":41,\"length2\":40},{\"diffs\":[[0,\"rycz\"],[-1,\": \\\nI am an C++ software engineer who received master's degree from Tongji University in 2021. I am considering applying to Alberta University's 2024 PhD program and would be interested\"],[1,\",\\\n\\\nI hope this email finds you well. My name is Li Baizhen and I am writing to express my interest in the PhD program at Alberta University starting in 2024, as well as to inquire about any potential opportunities to\"],[0,\" join\"],[-1,\"ing\"],[0,\" you\"]],\"start1\":106,\"start2\":106,\"length1\":200,\"length2\":229},{\"diffs\":[[0,\"p.\\\n\\\n\"],[-1,\"I found your paper,\"],[1,\"As I was conducting research on potential programs and faculty members, I came across your impressive paper titled\"],[0,\" \\\"Ad\"]],\"start1\":350,\"start2\":350,\"length1\":27,\"length2\":122},{\"diffs\":[[0,\"mputing\\\"\"],[-1,\",\"],[0,\" on your\"]],\"start1\":515,\"start2\":515,\"length1\":17,\"length2\":16},{\"diffs\":[[0,\"our \"],[-1,\"g\"],[1,\"G\"],[0,\"oogle \"],[-1,\"s\"],[1,\"S\"],[0,\"cholar \"],[-1,\"home\"],[0,\"page. \"],[-1,\"I was fascinated by your viewpoint toward the combination of\"],[1,\"Your innovative approach incorporating\"],[0,\" gra\"]],\"start1\":528,\"start2\":528,\"length1\":93,\"length2\":67},{\"diffs\":[[0,\"mputing \"],[-1,\"and\"],[1,\"within\"],[0,\" federat\"]],\"start1\":603,\"start2\":603,\"length1\":19,\"length2\":22},{\"diffs\":[[0,\"ning\"],[-1,\", e\"],[1,\" \"],[0,\"speci\"],[1,\"fic\"],[0,\"ally \"],[-1,\"as I have spent several years studying granular computing and have no good ideas about the application of\"],[1,\"sparked my interest. Additionally, as someone who has been studying granular computing for several years, I am particularly intrigued by finding ways to apply\"],[0,\" rou\"]],\"start1\":632,\"start2\":632,\"length1\":126,\"length2\":180},{\"diffs\":[[0,\"earning.\"],[1,\" In fact,\"],[0,\" I have \"]],\"start1\":829,\"start2\":829,\"length1\":16,\"length2\":25},{\"diffs\":[[0,\"ore \"],[-1,\"general but more \"],[0,\"effi\"]],\"start1\":867,\"start2\":867,\"length1\":25,\"length2\":8},{\"diffs\":[[0,\"lgorithm\"],[-1,\"s\"],[0,\" based o\"]],\"start1\":902,\"start2\":902,\"length1\":17,\"length2\":16},{\"diffs\":[[0,\"ugh sets\"],[1,\", which\"],[0,\" \"],[-1,\"(\"],[0,\"you can \"]],\"start1\":922,\"start2\":922,\"length1\":18,\"length2\":24},{\"diffs\":[[0,\"ess \"],[-1,\"it at the page\"],[1,\"via this link:\"],[0,\" htt\"]],\"start1\":949,\"start2\":949,\"length1\":22,\"length2\":22},{\"diffs\":[[0,\"4436\"],[-1,\"), and I am so interested about applying the granular computing in federated learning to improve the reliability and robustness of models. \\\n\\\nI believe your result is even more important than your paper implies, since it can be extended to solve the Travelling Salescritter Problem and thus to prove P = NP. Concisely describe your insight or why you are interested in the work.\\\nDo you think it would be worthwhile to pursue this line of research? If you are interested, I can send you a proof sketch.\\\n\\\nEnd with a clear, simple question.\\\nOffer a suggestion on how to proceed.\\\nRegards,\\\nFlipper Wordsfish (flipper@adou.edu\"],[1,\".\\\n\\\nIf you are currently recruiting PhD students for your lab, I would be honored to be considered for a position. Due to my background as a C++ software engineer and having recently completed a Master's degree at Tongji University in 2021, I am confident that my educational background and research experience make me an excellent candidate for your group. For your reference, I have attached my CV to this email. If there is any additional information that would be helpful for you to know, please do not hesitate to ask.\\\n\\\nThank you for taking the time to consider my application. I look forward to hearing from you soon.\\\n\\\nBest regards, Li Baizhen([1833009@tongji.edu.cn](mailto:1833009@tongji.edu.cn)\"],[0,\")\"]],\"start1\":1035,\"start2\":1035,\"length1\":624,\"length2\":707}]"
metadata_diff: {"new":{},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2023-06-10T15:46:47.566Z
created_time: 2023-06-10T15:46:47.566Z
type_: 13